# Computer Tour 

* input/output devices
    * Screen - displays items to a user
    * Keyboard - allows a user to provide input to a computer
    * other devices that provide input and output
        * speakers, mics, USB, Printers

* Storage 
    * Disk aka hard drive - store files and other data such as program files, songs, movies.
        * Disks are non Volatile, meaning they maintain their contents even when powered off 

* Memory RAM (Random-access memory) - temporarily holds data read from storage and is designed such that any address can be accessed much faster than a disk. 
    * RAM is volatile meaning losing its memory when powered off. 
    * Memory is typicall listed in bits where a byte = 8 bits 
    * common sizes involve megabytes, gigabytes or terabytes 

* Processor - runs the computers programs, reading and executing instruction from memory. preforming operations and reading/writing data from/to memory. 
    * this program is called BIOS (basic input/ output system)
    * Operating system allows a user to run programs and which interfaes with the many other peripherals.  
    * CPU(Centeral processing unit) - another word for processors 
    * cache memory , accessible in one clock tick rather than several, for maintaing a copy of the most-used instructions/data

* Clock - Processors instructions execute at a rate governed by the processor's clock, which ticks at a specific freq.  

1. Operating System - Manages programs and interfaces with peripherals 
2. Disk - Non Volatile storage with slower access 
3. RAM - Volatile storage with faster access usually located off the processor chip 
4. Cache - Relatively small volatile storage with fastest access located on processor chip
5. Clock - Rate at which a processor executes instructions 
6. Moore's Law - The doubling of IC capacity roughly every 18 months


*Common way to make your PC faster is to add more RAM. Moore's law results in RAM being cheaper a few years after buying a PC, so adding RAM to a several year old PC can yielf good speedups for little cost*