# Computer Tour 

* Maching Language - founded on two character alphabet.  Two characters responed to two states, either a 1 or a 0. True or false state. 

* Machine Instructions - a sequence of machine instructions together form an executable program.

* Assemblers - were created by programmers to translate human readble instructors because 0s and 1s were hard to understand - this was known as *assembly lanugage* 

* High level lanuages - were created in the 50s and 60s, to support programming using formulas and algorithms such as FORTRAN or ALGOL

* Statements - were higher-level language instructions like **F = (9 * C) / 5 + 32**

* Compilers - programmers created this to automatically translate those high-level language programs to even higher level than assembly into assembly language 

*An assembler translates an assembly program into amchine instructions*

*A high-level language eases a programmers task of writing complex programs*

* Scripting languages - programmers created to execute programs with needing complication

* Script is a program whose instructions are executed by another program called **interpreter**

* Python - created by Guido van Rossum in 1980s and accompanying interpreter. Python came from an existing language called ABC.  the name came fomr Guido's favorite show Monty Python.

* Open-source - python is open source meaning the community of users participate in defining the language and creating new interpreters. 

*Python is not Backwards Compatible*

*Python was concieved in the late 1980s and implemented in early 1990s*

*Python excels at providing powerful programming paradigms such as object oriented programming and dynamic typing. Python incurs additional overhead costs because the language is interpreted*

*Python was originally designed with redability in mind, Maxims of Python include "Simple is better than complex", "Readability counts"*